---
author: Christopher Chedeau (@vjeux)
authorURL: https://twitter.com/vjeux
title: "Prettier 1.10: One Year of Prettier 🎉"
---

Happy Prettier-versary!

This release adds partial support for Vue ([#3563]), fixes the printing of Flow type annotation comments ([#3449]), and fixes a bug with comments in SCSS selectors ([#3649]).

<!--truncate-->

# Retrospective

Ever since gofmt came out in 2013, I ([@vjeux]) became obsessed with the idea of automatic formatting. I started seeing problems that would be solved by an automatic formatter all the time: arguing about coding style, having to manually format the code manually, difficulty to write codemod tools…

When last December there were not one but two people independently working on a JavaScript pretty printer, it was a sign! Pieter Vanderwerff built one in Reason based on Flow infrastructure and James Long in JavaScript. I played the role of a cheerleader by setting up the same test suite for the two projects as well as running their pretty printer on existing codebases and extracting lists of [things that](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/2) were [not printed well](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/6).

Sadly, after the holidays were over, both of them had to go back to work on their real job :( I decided to step in and convince my manager to work on it full time. James had open sourced his project (Prettier) and I was more familiar with JavaScript so I decided that this was the one I would work on!

Here's a list of some of the things that worked well during this project.

### Spend time on release notes

Release notes have an interesting property that they are very often shared, even if the content is terrible. Everyone seems to want to know that version 1.5.8 of some software has been released. This is a very good opportunity to also sell your project.

For Prettier releases, I spent a lot of time explaining the rationale behind all the changes and talked about some things that would likely have been written as a separate blog post (like this!). Plus, you're likely going to be lazy and find all the excuses in the world not to write that blog post, but you really want to publish that new version, so it's a good forcing function.

### Clear decision-making process

Style rules are one of the most controversial subjects and at the same time a lot of decisions needed to be made. I tried to design a decision-making process that would let us make progress.

People find all sort of emotional arguments in order to convince you that their opinion on style is the best. We needed to have something purely rational so that even though it's not what people would prefer, they couldn’t argue against the methodology.

The best I could find was to count how many times each variant was used in the Facebook codebase. It’s easy for me to run and provide relative numbers (style A is used 5x more than style B) to convince people. If such a big codebase that has been written by thousands of people over the years has a winner, it may not be the best but is likely not going to be hugely controversial.

Not everything could be solved this way, some things didn't have a clear winner or it was not obvious how to come up with an algorithm to print it well. In those cases, it was important to have an escalation process with a single person making the decision at the end (me). This way we could make progress without needing to find a consensus which would have likely been very hard.

### Open source as guinea pigs

A total pretty printer is one of those projects where you need it to be close to perfect to bring it to a big codebase like Facebook. The first impression is extremely important and it's very hard to get something that will be correct (it won't introduce invalid JavaScript or code that would behave differently) for all the edge cases.

My initial plan was to work on it alone in a cave hidden from the outside world for 6 months until I got everything just right and then get people to adopt it. What I didn't expect is that people in open source didn't have that same quality bar and started using it way earlier than that. The risks of using it on a side project are vastly different than on millions of lines of code at Facebook.

It ended up being very beneficial for the project to get feedback along the way until it was finally ready to be used at Facebook.

### Open source as contributors

For the first 6 months of the project, I was working full time on it and ended up writing only half of the commits. This is pretty mind-blowing in itself! Not only was the throughput two times better on the project itself, but people ended up working on things that I wouldn't have spent time on like integrations with all the editors on earth, a fuzzer to find bugs, TypeScript support, infrastructure to support parsing multiple languages in the same file, and more.

Even though we don't use all those things at Facebook, many of them ended up being useful. CSS-in-JS support made it easy to get GraphQL fragments in template literals formatted. The large number of users was also a great way to surface obscure bugs that we would eventually hit and many different people chimed in to fix them.

The best thing is that I stopped working on the project full time 6 months ago and the project kept going under the leadership of [@azz]. I'd like to thank all the people that helped in various ways, this is so exciting to make history together!

Open source has been doing wonders for the project, delivering a ton of value for Facebook (almost all our JavaScript files are now pretty printed) and for the industry at large as seen by the huge adoption.

### Tooling: Jest Snapshot Tests & Playground

All those contributions were possible because it was easy to report errors, contribute and review code. The two tools that were most impactful in this project were jest snapshot tests and the playground.

Snapshot tests are a wonder for a pretty printer. Adding new tests is dead easy, just create a file in the test folder with the code you want to format and run jest, voila! Anytime you change something, you can see how a bunch of examples would be printed differently, then it's up to you to decide if it's better or not. For a reviewer, it's also really nice, you can look at the before/after of all the things it changed. I've come to pay more attention to the snapshots than the actual implementation.

[The playground](https://prettier.io/playground) is a really nice way to get to a repro or play with Prettier without having to install the development environment, being on the right branch... This has proven to be extremely valuable to get people to provide really good bug reports that are actionable.

# Changelog

...

<!-- -------- -->

[@vjeux]: https://github.com/vjeux
[@azz]: https://github.com/azz
[#3449]: https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/3449
[#3563]: https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/3563
[#3649]: https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/3649
