#### [HIGHLIGHT] Improve handling of whitespace for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean (#11597 by @tats-u)

##### Stop inserting spaces between Chinese or Japanese and Western characters

Previously, Prettier would insert spaces between Chinese or Japanese and Western characters (letters and digits). While some people prefer this style, it isn’t standard, and is in fact contrary to official guidelines. Please see [here](https://github.com/tats-u/prettier-plugin-md-nocjsp#why-this-plugin-is-needed) for more details. We decided it’s not Prettier’s job to enforce a particular style in this case, so spaces aren’t inserted anymore, while existing ones are preserved.

The tricky part of this change were ambiguous line breaks between Chinese or Japanese and Western characters. When Prettier unwraps text, it needs to decide whether such a line break should be simply removed or replaced with a space. For that Prettier examines the surrounding text and infers the preferred style.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
<!-- Input -->
漢字
Alphabetsひらがな12345カタカナ67890한글

漢字 Alphabets ひらがな 12345 カタカナ 67890 한글

<!-- Prettier stable -->
漢字 Alphabets ひらがな 12345 カタカナ 67890한글

漢字 Alphabets ひらがな 12345 カタカナ 67890 한글

<!-- Prettier main -->
漢字Alphabetsひらがな12345カタカナ67890한글

漢字 Alphabets ひらがな 12345 カタカナ 67890 한글
```

##### Comply to line breaking rules in Chinese and Japanese

There are rules that prohibit certain characters from appearing at the beginning or the end of a line in [Chinese](https://www.w3.org/TR/clreq/#prohibition_rules_for_line_start_end) and [Japanese](https://www.w3.org/TR/jlreq/#characters_not_starting_a_line). E.g., full stop characters `。`, `．`, and `.` shouldn’t start a line.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
<!-- Input -->
HTCPCPのエラー418は、ティーポットにコーヒーを淹（い）れさせようとしたときに返されるステータスコードだ。

<!-- proseWrap = always & printWidth = 8 -->

<!-- Prettier stable -->
HTCPCP の
エラー
418 は、
ティーポ
ットにコ
ーヒーを
淹（い）
れさせよ
うとした
ときに返
されるス
テータス
コードだ
。


<!-- Prettier main -->
HTCPCPの
エラー
418は、
ティー
ポットに
コーヒー
を淹
（い）れ
させよう
としたと
きに返さ
れるス
テータス
コード
だ。
```

In the above sentence:

- `ィ`, `ッ`, `）`, `ー`, `、`, and `。` must not be placed at the beginning of a line.
- `（` must not be placed at the end of a line.

Prettier now follows these rules when `proseWrap` is `always` unless the original documents break the rules on purpose. If they break, Prettier respects the policy (doesn’t force the rules). If you have documents not conforming to the rules due to old versions of Prettier, you want to fix all violation places by hand and reformat them using the latest version.

##### Do not break lines inside Korean words

Korean uses spaces to divide words, and an inappropriate division may change the meaning of a sentence:

- `노래를 못해요.`: I’m not good at singing.
- `노래를 못 해요.`: I can’t sing (for some reason).

Previously, when `proseWrap` was set to `always`, successive Hangul characters could get split by a line break, which could later be converted to a space when the document is edited and reformatted. This doesn’t happen anymore. Korean text is now wrapped like English.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
<!-- Input -->
노래를 못해요.

<!-- Prettier stable with --prose-wrap always --print-width 9 -->
노래를 못
해요.

<!-- Prettier stable, subsequent reformat with --prose-wrap always --print-width 80 -->
노래를 못 해요.

<!-- Prettier main with --prose-wrap always --print-width 9 -->
노래를
못해요.

<!-- Prettier main, subsequent reformat with --prose-wrap always --print-width 80 -->
노래를 못해요.
```

By this change, line break between hangul and letters in other languages will produce a space if two lines around it are merged into a single line. For example:

> 3분 기다려 주지.

In this sentence, you shouldn’t break lines between “3” and “분”, or a space will be inserted there when they’re merged into a single line again.
