#### Make Markdown's newline & space handling conform to CSS & web-platform-tests (#15081 by @tats-u)

Newlines in Markdown paragraphs are preserved when converted to HTML in major implementation systems.
Therefore, the following Markdown is converted to the following HTML:

```markdown
日本語の文です。
这是一个中文句子。
日本語の
文です。这是一个
中文句子。日本語の文
です。这是一个中文句子。
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```html
<p>日本語の文です。
这是一个中文句子。
日本語の
文です。这是一个
中文句子。日本語の文
です。这是一个中文句子。</p>
```

In the [CSS specification](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-text-4/#line-break-transform), newlines and the consecutive spaces around them are treated as a single space, or may simply be removed if surrounded by Chinese or Japanese characters.
In an example (EXAMPLE 19) there, newlines between Chinese characters are required to be simply removed rather than replaced with spaces. Following this example, newlines after "。︀" (Ideographic Full Stop) should simply be removed.
Note the detailed rule depends on browsers.

Regrettably, As of July 2023, those other than Firefox always treat newlines as a single space, even if they are surrounded by Chinese or Japanese characters.
This HTML is rendered by them as follows:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```html
<p>日本語の文です。 这是一个中文句子。日本語の 文です。这是一个 中文句子。日本語の文 です。这是一个中文句子。</p>
```

A closer look at this result shows that there extra spaces between each "。︀" and the next character in the first Japanese and Chinese sentences, and between some Chinese or Japanese characters.

However, this behavior should not be accepted forever. [some test cases in web-platform-tests](https://wpt.fyi/results/css/css-text/line-breaking?label=master&label=experimental&aligned&q=segment-break-transformation-rules-) shows that that behavior is not preferred. It shows that the behavior of Firefox is preferred. We added these test cases to Prettier after converting them to Markdown.

The changed behavior affects line breaks adjacent to both a Chinese or Japanese character and one that is not. Look at the following example:

```markdown
Prettierは最高のフォーマッターだ。
Prettier是最好的格式化器。
Prettier
は最高のフォーマッターだ。
Prettier
是最好的格式化器。
```

In Prettier 3.0, the above Markdown is converted to the following when `proseWrap` is set to `never`:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
Prettierは最高のフォーマッターだ。Prettier是最好的格式化器。Prettierは最高のフォーマッターだ。Prettier是最好的格式化器。
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```html
<p>Prettierは最高のフォーマッターだ。
Prettier是最好的格式化器。
Prettier
は最高のフォーマッターだ。
Prettier
是最好的格式化器。</p>
```

However, the above HTML is rendered even by Firefox (or other processors fully compliant with web-platform-tests) as follows:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
Prettierは最高のフォーマッターだ。 Prettier是最好的格式化器。 Prettier は最高のフォーマッターだ。 Prettier 是最好的格式化器。
```

This is why we changed the behavior. The source Markdown is now formatted with `proseWrap` set to `always` as the above. Notice that there is now always a space between a Chinese or Japanese character and a Latin character.

**Users who use Prettier to format Chinese and Japanese Markdown or MDX documents with `proseWrap` set to _`always`_ are strongly encouraged to format their documents _once_ with `proseWrap` set to _`never`_ just _before_ upgrading Prettier.** Once they do with `proseWrap` set to _`never`_, they can do with `proseWrap` set to _`always`_ again.

Furthermore, in Prettier 3.0 or earlier, other types of spaces categorized as "Zs" in Unicode, including the full-width space, were removed if they were at the beginning or end of a line.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markdown
　　全角スペース　　
```

For example, all full-width spaces were removed in the above Markdown. However, even if they were inserted by mistake or due to ignorance of style sheets, formatters like Prettier should not remove them.

With this change, leading and trailing spaces that are categorized as "Zs" in Unicode, other than [the collapsible whitespace specified in the CSS specification](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-text-4/#white-space-phase-2), are now preserved as they are.
