#### [HIGHLIGHT] Move Handlebars support out of alpha to release (#10290 by @dcyriller & @thorn0)

This started in 2017. Handlebars support has been in Prettier for a while, but it wasn’t released officially as it wasn’t really ready. Its status went from “alpha” to “experimental” to “beta” and then, if you checked older release notes, you can see that after “beta” somehow it was “alpha” again…

Well, anyway, it finally is happening: Prettier can now officially format HTML templates with Handlebars! 🎉

It uses [Glimmer], [Ember]’s Handlebars parser, so it should be compliant with the HTML spec thanks to the Ember team.

The [`--html-whitespace-sensitivity`][hws-option] option is supported and defaults to `strict`, which means that Prettier will always respect the presence or absence of whitespace around tags and consider it unsafe to add whitespace where there were none and vice versa as this can affect how the document is rendered in the browser. The `css` value is not yet supported (treated as `strict` for now).

The feature is called “Ember / Handlebars” and not just “Handlebars” because Glimmer doesn’t support some syntax and use cases of Handlebars. This is mostly due to the fact that [Handlebars], being a template engine (a preprocessor), doesn’t care about the underlying syntax of the content it processes whereas Glimmer parses two syntaxes – HTML and Handlebars – at the same time and combines the result into a single tree, which Prettier can print. This means Prettier won’t format Handlebars files that can’t be parsed into such a tree, either because the underlying syntax isn’t HTML or because template directives and tags overlap in a way that can’t be represented in a tree (e.g., `{{#if foo}}<div>{{/if}`). Even with these restrictions, the formatter still seems to be useful enough to non-Ember Handlebars users. As for the syntax unsupported by Ember, there is a good chance to see support for it in future versions of Prettier as Glimmer uses a full-fledged Handlebars parser under the hood.

Files with the extensions `.hbs` and `.handlebars` are recognized as Handlebars by default. For other extensions, the [`--parser`](parser-option) option with the value `glimmer` has to be specified – for example, using command line or, better yet, [configuration overrides].

See the formatter in action on the [playground][playground-glimmer]!

[glimmer]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@glimmer/syntax
[ember]: https://emberjs.com
[hws-option]: https://prettier.io/docs/en/options.html#html-whitespace-sensitivity
[handlebars]: https://handlebarsjs.com/
[parser-option]: https://prettier.io/docs/en/options.html#parser
[configuration overrides]: https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration.html#configuration-overrides
[playground-glimmer]: https://prettier.io/playground/#N4Igxg9gdgLgprEAuEACVAeAJgSwG7qFgA2AhgM7kC8AOiAjAE4CedhqAfDVOhgBYBGDsGDoYOGMTjsAvjIwB6QVx6ZcBdCQrU6AIwhZWIFe1OERhfYbOE53Reo6YFjkABoQEAA7jo5ZKCkjIwQAO4ACkEI-iikxKGkzP4euoykYADWcDAAyl7pOFAA5shMAK5wHnAAtrpwWFj1ADKkxWWkRXAAYhCM1aQw4sXIIKRlMBDuIHww1cQA6nwScOT5YHA50RL4Eswj5Ew4YDBTheRwjDDhaUX9yABmceceAFbkAB4AQmmZ2Tmk1TgTUKcAeT0qIDe7xyhSKUgAimUIPAwcRniB8oxzowRnCcNVATiPF5GIUYPMcFgYHxkAAOAAMxJC53maS8IxJKwueFBHgAjkj4NdvDFRuQALRQOD1epTRhwAU4eXXDp3JCPNEQ87VHClRgVDzkWEIwWg9XgjwwUi6ClUmlIABMlrSOGIsIAwhACaQRisAKxTMrnAAq1piGvReAqAEkoI1YDkwKSfABBOM5GDMKSo85yIA
